OPSEXP-2445 Add guide to deploy dedicated hazelcast cluster with alfresco content services chart. (#1096)
Alfresco/acs-deployment: docs/helm/examples/external-hazelcast.md

4. Add appropriate configuration for kubernetes autodiscovery feature and [rest
   api
   groups](https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/5.3/maintain-cluster/rest-api#using-rest-endpoint-groups)
   depending on your choice.

    ```xml
    <network>
        <join>
            <kubernetes enabled="true">
                <service-name>hazelcast</service-name>
            </kubernetes>
        </join>
        <rest-api enabled="true">
            <endpoint-group name="CLUSTER_READ" enabled="true"/>
            <endpoint-group name="CLUSTER_WRITE" enabled="true"/>
            <endpoint-group name="HEALTH_CHECK" enabled="true"/>
            <endpoint-group name="HOT_RESTART" enabled="true"/>
            <endpoint-group name="WAN" enabled="true"/>
            <endpoint-group name="DATA" enabled="true"/>
        </rest-api>
    </network>
    <jet enabled="true">
    </jet>
    ```

5. Accordingly change the values for management center. Put internal network
   address of your k8s.

    ```xml
    <management-center data-access-enabled="true">
        <trusted-interfaces>
            <interface>10.42.0.*</interface>
        </trusted-interfaces>
    </management-center>

>     ```

Author: It comes with generated xml, I will mention to delete this

- [Alfresco Content Services Helm Deployment with external Hazelcast
  cluster](#alfresco-content-services-helm-deployment-with-external-hazelcast-cluster).
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Warning](#warning)
  - [Step by step guide](#step-by-step-guide)
  - [Tests](#tests)

## Prerequisites

- Having installed either of:
  - [Rancher for Desktop](https://rancherdesktop.io/). Includes kubectl and
    Helm, ready to use right after installation.
  - [Docker for Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/). Requires separate
    install of kubectl and Helm.

## Warning

  This feautre won't be showing proper server details on Alfresco UI in
  Repository Server Clustering under section Cluster Members. Alfresco
  repository pod will be still present after scaling it down. Pod with new name
  will be added to list but the older will still remain. To verify that the
  solution is working you can check managment center or do manual test described
  in [Tests](#tests)

## Step by step guide

1. Deploy alfresco-content-services. See [desktop
   deployment](../desktop-deployment.md) section. Remember to stick to one
   namespace in next steps.

> 2. Prepare a valid Hazelcast xml configuration. First step in this [Alfresco
>    docs](https://docs.alfresco.com/content-services/latest/admin/cluster/#set-up-repository-clustering-via-external-hazelcast).
>    If you want to use config generated by us skip to 7th step.
>     - Example file:
>       [caches.properties](https://github.com/Alfresco/alfresco-community-repo/blob/master/repository/src/main/resources/alfresco/caches.properties)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Prepare a valid Hazelcast xml configuration, which also must include different cache
   definitions depending on the ACS version. You can generate it by following the steps
   in [Alfresco docs](https://docs.alfresco.com/content-services/latest/admin/cluster/#set-up-repository-clustering-via-external-hazelcast).
   For testing you can use config generated by us on 23.2.0-M1 and skip to 7th step.
    - Example file:
      [caches.properties](https://github.com/Alfresco/alfresco-community-repo/blob/master/repository/src/main/resources/alfresco/caches.properties)
```

3. Replace the `<cluster-name>` within the `alfresco-hazelcast-config.xml`file
   with a secure value that is hard to guess. For all intents and purposes this
   field  should be treated as a password, as if matching it allows
   client-server / member-member connection.

4. Add appropriate configation for kubernetes autodiscovery feature and [rest
   api
   groups](https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/5.3/maintain-cluster/rest-api#using-rest-endpoint-groups)
   depending on your choise.

    ```xml
    <network>
        <join>
            <kubernetes enabled="true">
                <service-name>hazelcast</service-name>
            </kubernetes>
        </join>
        <rest-api enabled="true">
            <endpoint-group name="CLUSTER_READ" enabled="true"/>
            <endpoint-group name="CLUSTER_WRITE" enabled="true"/>
            <endpoint-group name="HEALTH_CHECK" enabled="true"/>
            <endpoint-group name="HOT_RESTART" enabled="true"/>
            <endpoint-group name="WAN" enabled="true"/>
            <endpoint-group name="DATA" enabled="true"/>

>         </rest-api>

Reviewer: didn't check, but those are necessary for management-center?

Author: DATA one is necessary for manual testing for sure but the rest I will check if they influence mancenter.

Author: I left only DATA and mancenter is looking all right I guess we can keep DATA and delete rest.

   file](external-hazelcast_files/acs-hazelcast.yaml). In below file specify
   properties that will make repository use external hazelcast cluster deployed
   in previous step. Remember to accordingly change the values if needed.

    ```yaml
    alfresco-repository:
      replicaCount: 3
      config:
        repository:
          additionalGlobalProperties: 
            alfresco.hazelcast.embedded: false
            alfresco.hazelcast.client.address: hazelcast:5701
            alfresco.cluster.name: test
    ```

    ```bash
    helm upgrade acs helm/alfresco-content-services \    
    --values local-dev-values.yaml \
    --set global.search.sharedSecret=$(openssl rand -hex 24) \
    --atomic \
    --timeout 10m0s \
    --values acs-hazelcast.yaml
    ```

## Tests

1. Make sure that you have installed fresh environment. Do not login into
   Alfresco UI yet.

2. Add ubuntu deployment.

    ```bash
    helm repo add open https://simonmisencik.github.io/helm-charts
    helm repo update
    helm install testing open/ubuntu
    ```

3. Get into a shell of container created by previous commands.

    ```bash
    kubectl exec --stdin --tty testing-ubuntu -- /bin/bash

>     ```

Reviewer: better use standard and well known stuff

no need for ubuntu helm chart, just use:

```
kubectl run -i --tty --rm --image ubuntu test-shell -- /bin/bash
```
